## Automated ELK Stack Deployment

The files in this repository were used to configure the network depicted below.

ELKProject/Diagram/NetworkDiagram.drawinio.png








These files have been tested and used to generate a live ELK deployment on Azure. They can be used to either recreate the entire deployment pictured above. Alternatively, select portions of the playbook file may be used to install only certain pieces of it, such as Filebeat.

  - ansible.cfg
  - filebeat-config.yml 
  - metricbeat-config.yml
  - pentest.yml
  - elkplaybook1.yml
  - metricbeat-playbook.yml
  - hosts
  - filebeat-playbook.yml


This document contains the following details:
- Description of the Topology
- Access Policies
- ELK Configuration
  - Beats in Use
  - Machines Being Monitored
- How to Use the Ansible Build


### Description of the Topology

The main purpose of this network is to expose a load-balanced and monitored instance of DVWA, the D*mn Vulnerable Web Application.

Load balancing ensures that the application will be highly redundant, in addition to restricting attacks to the network.
- One aspect of security that load balancers protect is mitigating DoS attacks by placing them in front of multiple servers running the same site. A load balancer receives any traffic that comes into the website and distributes it across multiple multiple servers. The load balancer typically has a health probe function in which it regularly checks the machines behind the load balancer are functioning before sending traffic their way. HAving a jump box enables only one port to connect to different virtual machines which makes it easier to monitor incoming and outgoing traffic. 

Integrating an ELK server allows users to easily monitor the vulnerable VMs for changes to the logfile and system resource.
- Filebeat: Collects about the file system
- Metricbeat: Collects machine metrics (i.e. uptime)

The configuration details of each machine may be found below.


| Name          | Function             | IP Address | Operating System     |
|---------------|----------------------|------------|-------------------|
| JumpBox       | Gateway              | 10.3.0.4   | Linux (Ubuntu 18.04) |
| Web-1         | Web Application DVWA | 10.3.0.5   | Linux (Ubuntu 18.04) |
| Web-2         | Web Application DVWA | 10.3.0.6   | Linux (Ubuntu 18.04) |
| Elk-Server VM | ELK Server           | 10.0.0.4   | Linux (Ubuntu 18.04)



### Access Policies

The machines on the internal network are not exposed to the public Internet. 

Only the jump box machine can accept connections from the Internet. Access to this machine is only allowed from the following IP addresses:
Whitelisted IP addresses: 20.211.119.177

Machines within the network can only be accessed by your public IP address(personal workstation).

The jump box is allowed access to the ELK VM via its private IP address 10.0.0.4. 


A summary of the access policies in place can be found in the table below.

| Name       | Publicly Accessible | Allowed IP Addresses |
|------------|---------------------|----------------------|
| Jump Box   | Yes                 | 20.211.119.177       |
| Web-1      | No                  | 10.3.0.5             |
| Web-2      | No                  | 10.3.0.6             |
| ELK Server | Yes                 | 20.37.12.52          |


### Elk Configuration

Ansible was used to automate configuration of the ELK machine. No configuration was performed manually, which is advantageous because it saves time from having to key it in manually every time which can be extremely time consuming. It can be a tedious task having to manually retype the configuration for several different machines and can also leave room for more human error. It also allows the user to deploy multi tier applications without having to write the script/code. 


The playbook implements the following tasks for ELK installation play: 
Download and configure the elk-docker container on the VM
Launch and expose the elk-container to start the ELK server.
Implement identity and access management- Configure your new Security group so you can connect to ELK via HTTP, and view it through the browser. 


The following screenshot displays the result of running `docker ps` after successfully configuring the ELK instance.

Images/Docker os output.png










### Target Machines & Beats
This ELK server is configured to monitor the following machines:
Web-1
Web-2

We have installed the following Beats on these machines:

Filebeat 
Metricbeat


These Beats allow us to collect the following information from each machine:

Filebeat: helps generate and organize log files to send to Logstash and Elasticsearch. Specifically, it logs information about the file system, including which files have changed and when.

Filebeat is often used to collect log files from very specific files, such as those generated by Apache, Microsoft Azure tools, the Nginx web server, and MySQL databases.

Metricbeat: takes the metrics and statistics that it collects and ships them to the output that you specify, such as Elasticsearch or Logstash. Metricbeat helps you monitor your servers by collecting metrics from the system and services running on the server, such as: Apache. HAProxy


### Using the Playbook
In order to use the playbook, you will need to have an Ansible control node already configured. Assuming you have such a control node provisioned: 

SSH into the control node and follow the steps below:
- Copy the YAML playbook file to the ansible directory (/etc/ansible
- Update the host file to include the target machines (webserver and ELK)
- Run the playbook, and navigate to http://ELKip:5601/app/kibana (i.e. http://20.37.12.52:5601/app/kibana) to check that the installation worked as expected.

Commands used to run Ansible configuration:

-access the Jumpbox with ssh username@publicIPaddress 
 ssh azadmin@20.211.119.177

-List the containers
 sudo docker container list -a

-Start the container with sudo docker container name
 sudo docker start intelligent_bouman

-Connect to the container with sudo docker attach containername
 sudo docker attach intelligent_bouman

-Go to the ansible playbook directory
 cd /etc/ansible/
-Launch the ansible playbook ansible-playbook ELKplaybookfilename
 ansible-playbook elkplaybook1.yml 

-Check your connection by connecting to the ELK server 
ssh usernameofELKserver@privateIPaddress
ssh sysadmin@10.0.0.4 




